Web Scripting is an automatic method to obtain large amounts of data from websites. 
Most of this data is unstructured data in an HTML format which is then converted into structured data in a spreadsheet or a database so that it can be used in various applications. 
There are many different ways to perform web scraping to obtain data from websites. 
These include using online services, particular API’s or even creating your code for web scraping from scratch. 
Many large websites like Google, Twitter, Facebook, StackOverflow, etc. have API’s that allow you to access their data in a structured format. 
This is the best option but there are other sites that don’t allow users to access large amounts of data in a structured form or they are simply not that technologically advanced. 
In that situation, it’s best to use Web Scraping to scrape the website for data.
Web scraping requires two parts namely the crawler and the scraper. 
The crawler is an artificial intelligence algorithm that browses the web to search the particular data required by following the links across the internet. 
The scraper, on the other hand, is a specific tool created to extract the data from the website. 
The design of the scraper can vary greatly according to the complexity and scope of the project so that it can quickly and accurately extract the data.
Web Scrapers can extract all the data on particular sites or the specific data that a user wants. 
Ideally, it’s best if you specify the data you want so that the web scraper only extracts that data quickly. 
For example, You might want to scrape an Amazon page for the types of juicers available, but you might only want the data about the models of different juicers and not the customer reviews.
So when a web scraper needs to scrape a site, first it is provided the URL’s of the required sites. 
Then it loads all the HTML code for those sites and a more advanced scraper might even extract all the CSS and Javascript elements as well. 
Then the scraper obtains the required data from this HTML code and outputs this data in the format specified by the user. 
Mostly, this is in the form of an Excel spreadsheet or a CSV file but the data can also be saved in other formats such as a JSON file.
